hey I don't know what is up welcome to
part three of my four-part Cameron
basics series today we are talking about
camera lenses yay different lenses have
different characteristics like different
f-stops which depends on how much light
you LED into your camera a different
focal lengths which controls kind of the
angle at which you you know how much of
what you're shooting at you get in the
picture if it's a wide-angle lens and
you're gonna be able to have a wider
angle view you're gonna grab more of
whatever is you're taking a picture of
if it's like a telephoto lens you're
gonna get kind of a smaller angle of
view so it's gonna be more close-up and
zoom on your subject so it really
depends what you are looking for so one
of the first things I want to talk about
is lens compatibility a lot of people
when buying camera ask what you know
what lenses can I use with my camera
what is compatible you can't just go out
and buy any type of lens for your camera
there are different mounts which means
if you are using a Canon camera then
there are lenses with Canon mounts that
are compatible with your camera same
with Nikon and Sony and Panasonic each
camera each brand of camera has their
own specific mount that you have to get
your lens in so typically say you know I
have Canon cameras so my Canon DSLR will
only be compatible with Canon mounts so
that means all the Canon EF lenses will
be compatible with my camera but also
you can get lenses from third-party
companies like Sigma Tamron Tokina there
are different companies outside of Canon
that make lenses that I can use I just
have to make sure it is the Canon mount
lens because these third-party companies
also make lenses for other cameras like
Sony Panasonic etc so when buying lenses
usually you can go to the third-party
companies for typically a cheaper at
lenses it is
up to you kind of to go out and maybe
test one or like it reviews online to
see which one best suits you usually in
my experience I have just stuck with
Canon glass when it comes to my Canon
camera because I never had problems with
autofocus I never have problems with you
know the lens communicating with the
camera cuz it's a canon lens and a canon
camera so it always works very smoothly
but i've also had good experiences with
third-party
dealers like Tamron if you're a can user
one common question is what the heck is
the difference between a EF lens and an
EFS lens and there's not a lot of
differences but the EFS lens just the
way it's made those are specifically
tailored to the kind of lower DSLR
models like the rebels and the eos line
which means those are the cameras that
have a crop sensor or a aps-c since
they're aps-c camera so i'm gonna get a
little bit more into sensor size in a
little bit but just so you know if you
have like a t3i t4i t5i any of those
cameras and the eos line then the EFS
lenses are compatible with your camera
but also you can buy any of the other
canon EF lenses those are also
compatible with their camera so if you
had like a canon 5d or a canon 6d kind
of the higher inch full-frame cameras
you are not going to be able to use the
EFS lenses cuz they're specifically
tailored to the aps-c so one of the most
important parts of different camera
lenses are the different focal lengths
all this means is you know when you're
looking at a camera this is the the
numbers that you see like with
millimeter bias so it'll be like 16 to
35 millimeter or 50 millimeter or a
hundred millimeter lenses this just
describes how much of the environments
that you
trying to capture it is going to be in
the picture I think it is easier to kind
of see what I'm talking about rather
than just talking about it so if I had a
camera on a tripod and it stayed in the
same place and I just was changing out
the lens of this and I was taking
picture of the same exact thing this
would be a picture at the 16 millimeter
focal length if I changed up a lens and
put a 35 millimeter on it this would be
the picture that you get with the 35
millimeter and then say I turned it to
200 millimeters this would be the
picture so as you can tell it just focal
length means kind of the angle of view
that you're getting into the picture so
the lower the number like you know 16
millimeters 18 millimeters 35
millimeters those are gonna be your
wider angle lenses so you're getting
more in the picture so that is great for
landscapes or you know what angles just
kind of work for everything but when you
start getting into telephoto lenses you
know start getting into the higher focal
lengths like 70 millimeters or 135
millimeters or 200 millimeters those are
gonna be super tight angles they're
gonna be more zoomed in to your subject
there are different types of lenses and
a prime lens just means it's a fixed
focal length so it's just one focal
length which you know means if you have
thirty five millimeter lens that is a
prime lens it's just thirty five
millimeters you can't zoom in zoom out
or anything it's just thirty five
millimeters if you have a zoom camera
like a 70 to 200 zoom lens
that means that the lowest focal length
can go is 70 millimeters and the highest
focal length you can go is 200
millimeters so you can zoom in zoom out
into your subject now going into sensor
size your sensor size actually does
affect what we're talking about when it
comes to focal lengths so different
cameras have different sensor sizes
and now you might ask you know what the
heck is a sensor a sensor is just like a
rectangle inside of your camera and that
is what you're actually capturing the
information of your photo or video on so
the light comes through your camera lens
it is captured on a sensor and you know
it's digitized into your camera or
whatever um so depending on what camera
you have you have different sizes of
sensors so if we're talking about Canon
cameras Canon cameras come in two
different sensor sizes basically your
lower priced models like the Canon t3i
t5i 70d 7d those are a crop factor
cameras they have a aps-c sensor in them
when you start going into the higher
model Canon DSLRs like a canon 60 or a
Canon 5d those have thirty
five-millimeter full-frame sensors other
cameras like the Panasonic gh4 you know
different Micro Four Thirds cameras like
that those types of cameras have a micro
4/3 sensor so different kinds of cameras
have different types of sensors so
typically the biggest sizes sensor that
you're going to encounter I'm not saying
this is like the biggest type of sensor
ever but for the context of this video
the biggest size sensor will be the
sensor that is in like the Canon
full-frame cameras which is a full-frame
35 millimeter sensor so if 35 millimeter
sensor is that big then the Canon aps-c
sensors are like that big a micro 4/3
sensor is like that big and then like a
super 16 millimeter sensor is even
smaller than that I'm actually going to
show you a chart this hopefully kind of
helps you kind of visualize what the
different sensors look like why do I
care about the sensor size well you
should care about the sensor size
because that changes technically the
focal length of your lenses
focal lengths on lenses are based off of
if you put them on a full frame camera
so
what that means is if I put my 16 to 35
millimeter lens on my Canon 5d which has
a 35-millimeter full-frame sensor then
that focal length would be a true 16 to
35 millimeters that means 16 millimeters
is going to be super wide zoom in to 35
it's gonna be a little bit less wide
that is a true 16 to 35 millimeters
however when you put a 16 to 35
millimeter lens on a say a Canon 7d key
that is an aps-c sensor which is
different than the full frame so that
means that the focal length isn't going
to be exactly 16 to 35 what it was on my
Canon 5d basically if a sensor isn't a
full-frame 35 millimeter sensor it has a
certain crop factor all that means is
it's just a number that you multiply the
focal lengths by to get the true focal
length of that lens so an aps-c camera
has a 1.6 times crop factor what that
means is when I put my 16 and 35
millimeter on my Canon 70d instead of 16
millimeters now I have an equivalent to
whatever 16 x 1.6 is so when I put that
1635 on my aps-c camera like a 7d d or
7d or a t3i or t5i or whatever that 1635
turns into like a 25 to 55 millimeter
focal length because I just took the
crop factor of one aps-c since there is
which is 1.6 and I said okay what is 1.6
times 16 which is like approximately 25
and then 1.6 times 35 s approximately 55
so that's 16 to 35 millimeter lens that
was a true 16 to 35 on the full-frame
camera is now going to be a little bit
more zoomed on a crop factor camera
so why'd are the lens the more stable
your video is going to be if you're
taking just a video handheld so say if
you have like a thirty five millimeter
lens when you're taking handheld video
it's a wider lens so it's going to take
in less of that shake of your hand but
if you have like a super zoomed in lens
like say a hundred millimeter it's gonna
be really hard to get like non shaky
footage when just taking handheld video
if it was on a tripod or monopod you and
have problems but that kinda is how
focal length affects the pictures and
video you're taking typically you know
if you want to pay a little bit extra
lenses will have some type of image
stabilization or different third-party
lenses call it like VC like vibration
control or something so image
stabilization is something to consider
when buying lenses if you know you take
a lot of handheld video or just you know
handheld pictures you know if you're in
a super dark room and you have to lower
your shutter speed a lot you're more
prone to getting shaky pictures but if
you have image stabilization you pop
that on that will help out with getting
non shaky pictures or not shaky video I
know that was a lot but if you have any
questions make sure to ask me in the
comment section below or you can tweet
me I am all over the interwebs so hit
that like and subscribe button if you
dig the video I'm putting out the last
installment of the series next week and
I that is gonna kind of just expand on
kind of editing workflow and maybe a
little bit more about camera gear and
stuff like that I'm kind of a software
that I use and yeah at the end of May I
am going to Iceland which I am super
stoked about so I'll be putting out some
cool videos about that in the future and
then there's also some really cool stuff
coming
my channel the Sun so staying tuned and
I will see in the next one bye guys